Spoken ~ repeating chorus chords
If we can have just this moment,
The sky is filled not with fighter-crafts, but with stars.
If we may pretend for now and ever more,
The lights gliding across our sky bear not
Destruction, but the spirits of the boundless birds.

Once there lived a bluejay, who could not fly.
When his siblings are out, up, and about.
Alone the bluejay stares, wishfully at the sky.
“I want to fly. And I know I can,
but every time I try, (5) my wings will not span.”

They say, the sky is the limit.
For birds may only fly so high
before their bodies burst aflame.

The day I fly, may I break through the sky
Into the beyond, fly higher than high
No body massive enough to pull me in
No force strong enough to veer my will

Though if I too am a bird, then one day,
Will I fly straight into my limit?

But if I think, myself as not a bird,
will I finally fly?
Then will the other birds of the forest
let me join them in play?

The bluejay imagines
himself not as a bird,
but as just a being,
a being born to do nothing but fly.
And takes flight into the vast sky.

He soars over the trees
scales up the mountains.
And falls into the wind’s embrace.

Today I fly, let me break through the sky
Into the beyond, fly higher than high
No body massive enough to pull me in
No force strong enough to change my path

Back home The jay chirps to his brothers and sisters,
to neighbors, and even to strangers.

“How can you take flight,
knowing you may only fly so high?”
“Are not all birds caged birds?
Stuck in this cage we call stratosphere?”

The bluejay searches every where
For another bird to join his quest.
He will say “Fly with me!
Fly with me and together, we shall challenge this terrestrial sky.”

But everywhere he flew, it was all the same.
The swans gawked at his non-sense.
The crows hollered at hubris.
And the condors just stared.
Lonely it is to be high up in the sky.

This time alone, I will  break through the sky
No rest for breathe nor return to cruel earth
Nobody loves me enough to hold me back
No words dear enough to change my path

Once more, he takes his final leap into the sky.
This time, he does not stop for scenic glances
at the terrains from on high.

Now to discover for himself
what is the limit they call the sky.
Higher and higher he ascends
His body grows hot, breath heavy, and wings lite.
With one last flap, the jay bursts aflame.
As his feathers ignite, he fiies higher


When the bluejay flew, he broke through the sky
Needed no body, for it was a cage
Just a thought was enough to transcend into
the beyond of all we see or seem

This bluejay was not the first bird,
nor the last to test the skies.
Rare they may be, but there will always be birds,
ho believe themselves as not birds.
Free birds. Free to discover
For themselves the limit of the skies

Each boundless one believes
itself to be the exception.
When one passes by others,
it will not see them.
Nor will they see it.

The boundless ones wander like satellites to earth,
with their wills in eternal contradiction.
Ever seeking for greater heights
Ever wishing for another to fly with.
